README.md, before:

# Dafny for Visual Studio Code

This extension supports Dafny version 3 and beyond. If you require _Dafny 2_ support, consider using the [legacy extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=correctnessLab.dafny-vscode-legacy).

## Features

- **Compile and Run** `.dfy` files.
- **Verification** as one types.
- **Syntax highlighting** thanks to [sublime-dafny](https://github.com/erggo/sublime-dafny). See file `LICENSE_sublime-dafny.rst` for license.
- Display **counterexample** for failing proof.
- **IntelliSense** to suggest symbols.
- **Go to definition** to quickly navigate.
- **Hover Information** for symbols.

You can find [examples below](#examples).

## Shortcuts

| Shortcut                  | Description                                                                             |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl+Shift+B` or `⇧+⌘+B` | Compile to `.dll` or, if there is a `Main` method, to `.exe` file                       |
| `F5`                      | Compile and run, if the source file has a `Main` method                                 |
| `F6`                      | Compile with custom arguments                                                           |
| `F7`                      | Show _Counterexample_                                                                   |
| `F8`                      | Hide _Counterexample_                                                                   |

## Requirements

The plugin requires at least .NET Core 5.0 (the ASP.NET Core 5.0 or 6.0 runtimes to be more specific) to run the _Dafny Language Server_. Please download a distribution from [Microsoft](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download).
When you first open a _Dafny_ file, the extension will prompt you to install .NET Core manually. The language server gets installed automatically.

## Examples

Here are a few impressions of the features.

### Installation

On the first start, the plugin will install the _Dafny_ language server automatically.

![Installation](readmeResources/Installation.png)

### Error Highlighting

![Syntax](readmeResources/Syntax.png)

Whenever a syntax, semantic, or verification error is present, the plugin will inform the user.

### Compile and Run

Press `F5` to compile and run the program.

![Compile](readmeResources/Compile.png)

### Show Counterxamples

Press `F7` to show counterexamples.

![Counter](readmeResources/Counter.png)

### Hover Information

Hover a symbol to get information about that symbol.

![Hover](readmeResources/Hover.png)

### IntelliSense

Type a dot to get a list of possible members of the accessed symbol.

![IntelliSense](readmeResources/IntelliSense.png)

### Automatic Verification

If VSCode appears unresponsive, you may lower the verification frequency or disable it entirely.

![Automatic Verification](readmeResources/automaticVerificationOption.png)

## Troubleshooting

### Stuck at *Verifying...*

Under certain circumstances, the extension appears to be stuck at *Verifying...*. Until now, this has only been observed for Mac OSX and occurs due to a [stack overflow](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/issues/1213#issuecomment-870440082) in the language server.
To overcome this issue, set the environment variable `COMPlus_DefaultStackSize` to a sufficiently large value before starting VSCode. For example:

```sh
# Increase the stack size
export COMPlus_DefaultStackSize=100000

# Launch VSCode
code
```

## Contribute

Dafny for Visual Studio Code is an MIT licensed open-source project that lives from code contributions.

We welcome your help! For a description of how you can contribute, as well as a list of issues you can work on, please visit the [Dafny-VSCode GitHub repository](https://github.com/DafnyVSCode/ide-vscode).

### Building Locally

To build Dafny VSCode locally, first clone this repository.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/dafny-lang/ide-vscode.git
```

Change into the root directory of the previously cloned repository and install the node modules.

```sh
npm install
```

To build and debug using Visual Studio Code, install the [TypeScript + Webpack Problem Matchers](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.tsl-problem-matcher) extension.
After the installation, open the root folder within VSCode and hit `F5` to debug the Dafny extension.

Because the latest version of the plugin requires recent changes to the Dafny language server, you will then need to change the `dafny.compilerRuntimePath` and `dafny.languageServerRuntimePath` extension settings to point to the `Dafny.dll` and `DafnyLanguageServer.dll` files from a local build of Dafny. See [here](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/wiki/INSTALL#building-and-developing-from-source-code) for instructions on building Dafny locally.

### Packaging

To create a VSIX package of the previously built sources, create the package through the CLI:

```sh
npx vsce package
```

### Coding Conventions

We use ESLint with the TypeScript plugin to ensure code consistency across the whole source. Install the [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint) extension in VSCode to have live feedback. Alternatively, you can check your code from the command line by running `npm run lint`.

Commit message:

Fix and rename counterexamples to verification trace (#533)
Replacement for https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/pull/5847
Fixes https://github.com/dafny-lang/ide-vscode/issues/492

## Overview

This PR fixes the broken counterexamples feature by renaming it to
verification trace and updating it to work with the current Dafny
language server API.

## API Changes
The language server API endpoint used to return a map of obfuscated
variable names to values, but now returns positions and text
assumptions. This change required updating the display logic to work
with assumption text instead of variable mappings.

## Display Improvements
- Swap 'value == variable' to 'variable == value' for better readability
- Replace ' && ' separator with ', ' for cleaner appearance  
- Remove 'assume ' prefix and ';' suffix from display


![VerificationTrace](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/018ff514-1ee5-4b36-99e9-a4738b284c28)

- Added proper TypeScript type annotations

## Files Updated
- Renamed `counterExamplesView.ts` to `verificationTraceView.ts`
- Updated API interfaces from `ICounterexampleItem` to
`IVerificationTraceItem`
- Updated commands, configuration keys throughout codebase
- Updated package.json with new command names and descriptions
- Added new README screenshots

![VerificationTraceMenu](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f93fd659-0262-47e9-ae26-b06e3a5894d1)


## Testing
- Manually tested in VSCode with Dafny programs
- Verified F7/F8 shortcuts work correctly
- Confirmed context menu and copy functionality

This restores a useful debugging feature that had been broken due to the
API format change.

README.md, after:

# Dafny for Visual Studio Code

This extension supports Dafny version 3 and beyond. If you require _Dafny 2_ support, consider using the [legacy extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=correctnessLab.dafny-vscode-legacy).

## Features

- **Compile and Run** `.dfy` files.
- **Verification** as one types.
- **Syntax highlighting** thanks to [sublime-dafny](https://github.com/erggo/sublime-dafny). See file `LICENSE_sublime-dafny.rst` for license.
- Display the **verification trace** for failing assertions.
- **IntelliSense** to suggest symbols.
- **Go to definition** to quickly navigate.
- **Hover Information** for symbols.

You can find [examples below](#examples).

## Shortcuts

| Shortcut                  | Description                                                                             |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl+Shift+B` or `⇧+⌘+B` | Compile to `.dll` or, if there is a `Main` method, to `.exe` file                       |
| `F5`                      | Compile and run, if the source file has a `Main` method                                 |
| `F6`                      | Compile with custom arguments                                                           |
| `F7`                      | Show _verification trace_                                                               |
| `F8`                      | Hide _verification trace_                                                               |

## Requirements

The plugin requires at least .NET Core 5.0 (the ASP.NET Core 5.0 or 6.0 runtimes to be more specific) to run the _Dafny Language Server_. Please download a distribution from [Microsoft](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download).
When you first open a _Dafny_ file, the extension will prompt you to install .NET Core manually. The language server gets installed automatically.

## Examples

Here are a few impressions of the features.

### Installation

On the first start, the plugin will install the _Dafny_ language server automatically.

![Installation](readmeResources/Installation.png)

### Error Highlighting

![Syntax](readmeResources/Syntax.png)

Whenever a syntax, semantic, or verification error is present, the plugin will inform the user.

### Compile and Run

Press `F5` to compile and run the program.

![Compile](readmeResources/Compile.png)

### Show the verification trace

Press `F7` to show the verification trace.

![VerificationTrace](readmeResources/VerificationTrace.png)

Press `F8` to hide the verification trace.

Additionally the context menu helps you show/hide the verification trace, as well as copy it to the clipboard with the `assume ` keyword to insert it into the code if needed.
![VerificationTraceMenu](readmeResources/VerificationTraceMenu.png)

### Hover Information

Hover a symbol to get information about that symbol.

![Hover](readmeResources/Hover.png)

### IntelliSense

Type a dot to get a list of possible members of the accessed symbol.

![IntelliSense](readmeResources/IntelliSense.png)

### Automatic Verification

If VSCode appears unresponsive, you may lower the verification frequency or disable it entirely.

![Automatic Verification](readmeResources/automaticVerificationOption.png)

## Troubleshooting

### Stuck at *Verifying...*

Under certain circumstances, the extension appears to be stuck at *Verifying...*. Until now, this has only been observed for Mac OSX and occurs due to a [stack overflow](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/issues/1213#issuecomment-870440082) in the language server.
To overcome this issue, set the environment variable `COMPlus_DefaultStackSize` to a sufficiently large value before starting VSCode. For example:

```sh
# Increase the stack size
export COMPlus_DefaultStackSize=100000

# Launch VSCode
code
```

## Contribute

Dafny for Visual Studio Code is an MIT licensed open-source project that lives from code contributions.

We welcome your help! For a description of how you can contribute, as well as a list of issues you can work on, please visit the [Dafny-VSCode GitHub repository](https://github.com/DafnyVSCode/ide-vscode).

### Building Locally

To build Dafny VSCode locally, first clone this repository.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/dafny-lang/ide-vscode.git
```

Change into the root directory of the previously cloned repository and install the node modules.

```sh
npm install
```

To build and debug using Visual Studio Code, install the [TypeScript + Webpack Problem Matchers](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.tsl-problem-matcher) extension.
After the installation, open the root folder within VSCode and hit `F5` to debug the Dafny extension.

Because the latest version of the plugin requires recent changes to the Dafny language server, you will then need to change the `dafny.compilerRuntimePath` and `dafny.languageServerRuntimePath` extension settings to point to the `Dafny.dll` and `DafnyLanguageServer.dll` files from a local build of Dafny. See [here](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/wiki/INSTALL#building-and-developing-from-source-code) for instructions on building Dafny locally.

### Packaging

To create a VSIX package of the previously built sources, create the package through the CLI:

```sh
npx vsce package
```

### Coding Conventions

We use ESLint with the TypeScript plugin to ensure code consistency across the whole source. Install the [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint) extension in VSCode to have live feedback. Alternatively, you can check your code from the command line by running `npm run lint`.
